---
title: Setup
description: Using Storybook in your Nuxt project is only one command away ✨
---

## Installation

The Storybook CLI provides a convenient way to integrate Storybook with Nuxt. Run the following command in your project's root directory:

::code-group

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm dlx storybook@9.1.4 init
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn dlx storybook@9.1.4 init
```

```bash [npm]
npx storybook@9.1.4 init
```

::

This command will install Storybook along with the Nuxt module, set up the necessary scripts to configure Storybook, and add some boilerplate stories to get you started.
Please consult the [Storybook documentation](https://storybook.js.org/docs/get-started/install) for more information.

Alternatively, you can install Storybook and the Nuxt module manually.

1. Add `@nuxtjs/storybook` as a development dependency to your project:

::code-group

```bash [nuxi]
npx nuxi@latest module add storybook
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm i -D @nuxtjs/storybook
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add -D @nuxtjs/storybook
```

```bash [npm]
npm install -D @nuxtjs/storybook
```

::

2. If not using `nuxi` above, add the module `@nuxtjs/storybook` to your Nuxt configuration:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxtjs/storybook'],
})
```

3. Prepare [Storybook config files](#storybook-config-files).

::tip{type="success"}
That's it! You can now use Storybook in your Nuxt app ✨
::

## Usage

When you run your Nuxt app in development mode, the Storybook server will automatically start in the background. The URL to access Storybook will be displayed in the console (`http://localhost:6006` by default).
If you want to start Storybook without running your Nuxt app, you can use the following command:

::code-group

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm run storybook
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn storybook
```

```bash [npm]
npm run storybook
```

```bash [manual]
storybook dev -p 6006
```

::

::warning
Running Storybook on its own will result in Nuxt running on `production` mode instead of `development`. This will have an effect on any stories for components that use `<DevOnly>` or `import.meta.dev`.
::

When you install Storybook using the CLI, you will find a few stories in the `components` directory to get you started. You can add your own stories to this directory or create a new directory for your stories (in which case you will need to update the [Storybook configuration](/storybook/config)).
The Storybook server will automatically detect changes to your stories and update the UI accordingly.

::tip{type="info"}
Discover your Stories directly within the `Storybook Devtools tab`.
::

For more information on how to write stories and the next steps, refer to the [Storybook documentation](https://storybook.js.org/docs/get-started/whats-a-story).

### Nightly Builds

The nightly release channel allows you to test the latest updates and features, directly from the most recent commits. This is useful for experimenting with new features, improvements, and bug fixes before they are included in the stable release.

#### Opting in to the nightly release

To use the nightly version, follow these steps:

- Modify the `@nuxtjs/storybook` dependency in your `package.json` to use the latest nightly release:

  ```json
  {
    "devDependencies": {
      "@nuxtjs/storybook": "npm:@nuxtjs/storybook@nightly"
    }
  }
  ```

- Remove the lockfile and reinstall the dependencies using your package manager to ensure the nightly release is installed.

#### Opting out of the nightly release

If you need to revert to the stable release, follow these steps:

- Change the `@nuxtjs/storybook` dependency in `package.json` back to the stable version:

  ```json
  {
    "devDependencies": {
      "@nuxtjs/storybook": "latest"
    }
  }
  ```

- Remove the lockfile and reinstall the dependencies to revert to the stable release.

## Storybook config Files

When running `npm run dev`, this module will look for these files:

- `.storybook/main.{ts,js}`
- `.storybook/preview.{js,cjs,mjs,ts}`

You can create these files manually or by running the following command:

```bash
npx storybook-nuxt init
```

::tip{type="info"}
If you want to auto launch storybook after init pass `--start`
If you want to enable Nuxt module pass `--enable-module`
::

## Options

You can customize the module's behavior by using the `storybook` property in `nuxt.config`:

```ts [nuxt.config]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  storybook: {
    // Options
    host: 'http://localhost',
    port: 6006,
  },
})
```

See the [module options](/getting-started/options).
